Welcome back.
And earlier we saw the ternary operator and we saw how we can apply a condition and then return back
an expression depending on what this condition evaluates to so whether it's true.
We were turned back.
The first item the second one gets returned.
If it's false.
So what happens if you actually want to have this condition but you want something to happen maybe you
want an alert to happen so you can either close them within the rounded brackets and I should say no
we don't want to enclose the whole thing.
So I want to wrap that one and then I can drop this one and then move this one over to here.
So basically if we do it this way we can see that when I entered and everything is still working the
same way.
So I also have the ability to add in something like if I wanted an alert and this alert will say hello.
So nice welcoming message.
And then what we need to do if we want to have multiple
operations happening we can come separate it.
And basically what's going to happen now is that the last expression is going to be the one that's actually
going to get taken.
So if we reverse this order or if we just leave Hello we're actually going to get a problem here.
So even though it will say hello we're going to get on the phone.
So the way to bring that defined by is to you comma separated.
So now when I refresh it and the tape.
Mike It says hello.
And it goes back to welcome Mike so he can do the same thing for denied and there is a problem here.
If we do want to have more things happen we want to sign different variables and different values.
We can't link them together with the comma.
And as long as at the end we're actually returning back a value that we're always going to get some
type of input here within that inner HMO.
So ideally this is the best way to present it.
It's really good if you want to have a really short format for the if statement but if you want something
longer.
And that's where we use the statement.
So what I want to do now is I'm going to rewrite what we've got here and I'm going to place it within
an if statement and then we'll do a quick comparison.
So basically the if statement allows us to once again evaluate the condition and if the condition is
true that it will run.
What's being set within that first expression so do our same condition here.
And let's let's go down to
over here and I get a set log in.
So we're going to use that same plug in that we had before.
So we do live in true.
And this is what we're going to do to start.
I'm going to comment at this prompting and to get rid of the stuff here as well.
So basically it won't ask us any analyst come back tonight because we're not going to have a value for
that user input.
So it's going to come back to night
and they should declare that variable because otherwise I'm going to get an error there so user input
and I'm just going to leave user input as blank.
So next let's go down to here and we're going to put log in and we saw earlier that log in.
Just point easing logging on it's own.
We can do the same thing as we did with equal equal.
True.
So now we've got the curly brackets.
And then within the curly brackets we can do something.
So let's update our inner
welcome.
It was true.
So do something like that.
So now when we refreshed we see get welcome it was true because what's happened now is that this if
statement got executed.
Checked the condition of log in and we know that log in is true because we've set it to True.
Just up here.
So it seems if the specific condition is truthy and if it is then it executes this content.
So what happens if it's not true.
So we have an option.
And that's really the nice thing about these statements that we also have the option.
So sometimes you'll find that programmers will just use the if statement by itself.
And they're not going to have something happening if this isn't true.
But we do have an option and that's where else comes in.
So elf's gives us the ability to output something if that particular condition is not true.
And again to get rid of this and I'm going to say that I'd
do it was not sure to update this to be false.
Go back refreshed and we get denied was not true.
So how do we take what we did within the turn every operator and apply it with in a conditional statement
and if statement.
So what we want you to do now pause the video and get rid of what we did up here for the Turner statement
and create those outputs here within this type of format within the if statement.
So you've got an opportunity to try this out.
So let's update our code and we've got the user input we're asking for the prompt.
So we do need that we don't need not want any more.
We still need to grab the element within the output.
And here is where we've got our condition.
So just like what we did in the temporary OPERATOR We've got our condition over here right in the beginning
of the if statement and the other thing that we did is that we had multiple expressions here.
So let's
update this.
And now we can clean this up a little bit as well.
So we've got that output.
And then we also had that denied.
And then we just did a column separation with the user input.
So let's just add that to the end here and add that to the end here and not get rid of this stuff up
here.
And I can also get rid of the like.
So now let's try it and see if it actually works the same way.
So save refresh and first let's enter the name that's there and we see.
Hello welcome.
It was true.
So next let's enter in a name we're entering nobody and we get denied.
What's not true.
Nobody And there's really a great advantage to doing it this way because you see you've got an opportunity
to set multiple values.
So even though the Turnier operator is a lot shorter if you're looking to do apply quite a bit of logic
within your code it might be easier to use an if statement so that you can also updates and do even
more.
So if I have a variable and HCM I'll put or something like that.
And let's just put this one blank right now.
I can also update my h tim output.
I could shorten this
and then this one I could always do at the end.
Because now I know that I've got one value from each T.M. output and I can simply put it there so I
can really simplify what's happening here.
Just meet together in
save that and clean this one up as well.
So don't need all of this here at the ends to get the quotes.
So it gives us an option to do even more.
So we're taking some type of action.
We're updating this.
We can even ask even another prompt in here.
So welcome.
It was true.
And maybe over here we've got another prompt.
And we'll just ask them their level or maybe we'll ask them their age.
And variable age.
And then over here we can apply something else to happen as well.
So we can take the value of age that we're studying in here and make use of it within our HMO.
So let's let's
ternary operator in here and we're going to check to see if
so do each T.M. outputs.
So we're going to add to that HMO output so some additional context to that.
And this is where we're going to use age and we're going to use a territory operator for this one so
we've got a combination of both.
So we're going to check to see if age is greater than 18.
And if it is then we're going to add you are over 18 and otherwise we're going to say you are under
18.
So now let's try the set.
So we're going to get one prompt asking us for our name and if our need is within the user names then
we can run through the logic here and output ask and ask the age and then check to see what their age
is update that into the cement output and then we can see that within our HMO.
So let's let's save us and go back in here.
So we need to be within the within the array.
So if we just type in something that's not in the array we see that denied was not true and we're not
even going to bother with the age because we know the person is not in the range.
So that's let's see if the person is in the array we output Hello and now we're asking their age.
So you say 19 and then welcome.
It was true.
You are over 18 John.
So this is a great way to do a combination between the two and really programming is all about creating
that set of instructions for the application to run through.
And this is where logic is really really important because it gives us the ability to set different
paths and run different pieces of code depending on what values we've got and what are met or are not.
So what I want you to do now is take what you've learned and try it for yourself create your own separate
file create an array of users and their names ask them about what their name is check to see if that
user is in the array.
And if they are then run some code create some code create some variables and create an interesting
output to be returned back to the user.
And then the next lesson we're going to explore even more with what we can do with if statements.